README.md, before:

# Seed Specification Language

[![Project Status: Language Design](https://img.shields.io/badge/Project%20Status-Language%20Design-blue.svg)]()
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Dual%20GPL%2FCommercial-blue.svg)](LICENSE.md)
[![Documentation Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-latest-brightgreen.svg)]()

The Seed Specification Language (Seed Spec) is an AI-native programming language that aims to generate production-ready applications from simple, intent-focused specifications. It bridges the gap between human ideas and working software through a minimal yet expressive syntax that both humans and AI can easily understand.

## 🚀 Current Status

Seed Spec is currently in the language design phase. We are:
1. Defining the core language syntax and semantics
2. Documenting patterns and best practices
3. Creating example specifications
4. Planning the implementation architecture

The code generation tooling and runtime environment are not yet implemented.

## Example Specification

```yaml
app TodoApp {
  # Core domain model
  entity Task {
    title: string
    done: bool = false
  }

  # UI definition (implies standard patterns)
  screen Tasks {
    list: [title, done]    # Will imply search, sort, pagination
    actions: [create, done] # Will imply proper handlers
  }
}
```

This specification will eventually generate a complete application, but the generation tools are still under development.

## 🌟 Key Features

- **AI-First Design**: Optimized for LLM generation and modification
- **Intent-Focused**: Express what you want, not how to build it
- **Smart Defaults**: Production patterns built-in, override only when needed
- **Full Stack**: One specification drives all application layers
- **Tech Independent**: Target any modern technology stack
- **Maps Integration**: Built-in support for location-based features and mapping

## 🎯 Smart Defaults

Seed Spec minimizes boilerplate through intelligent defaults:

- `string` fields imply validation, indexing, and proper UI handling
- `list` screens imply pagination, sorting, and search
- `actions` imply proper handlers, validation, and error handling
- All entities get automatic CRUD operations
- Security best practices are automatically applied
- `location` fields imply geocoding, map rendering, and distance calculations
- `map` screens imply clustering, search radius, and interactive controls

Override defaults only when needed:
```bash
entity User {
  # Override string defaults
  name: string {
    min: 3,
    max: 50
  }
  
  # Use defaults
  email: email  # Implies validation, uniqueness
}

# Maps integration with smart defaults
entity Store {
  location: location  # Implies geocoding, validation, map rendering
}

screen StoreLocator {
  map: [location]     # Implies clustering, search, radius filters
}
```

## 🏗️ Generated Stack

Seed Spec generates a complete, production-ready stack:

### Frontend
- React + TypeScript
- Responsive UI components
- State management
- Form handling
- API integration
- Maps components

### Backend
- FastAPI + SQLAlchemy
- REST endpoints
- Authentication
- Validation
- Error handling

### Infrastructure
- Database migrations
- Docker configuration
- API documentation
- Testing setup

## 📚 Documentation

- **[Getting Started](docs/getting-started.md)**
  - [Introduction](docs/getting-started/introduction.md)
  - [Installation](docs/getting-started/installation.md)
  - [Quick Start](docs/getting-started/quick-start.md)
  - [First Application](docs/getting-started/first-app.md)

- **[Core Concepts](docs/core-concepts/)**
  - [Type System](docs/core-concepts/type-system.md)
  - [Business Rules](docs/core-concepts/business-rules.md)
  - [UI Patterns](docs/core-concepts/ui-patterns.md)
  - [Architecture](docs/core-concepts/architecture.md)

- **[Examples](docs/examples/)**
  - [Basic CRUD](docs/examples/basic-crud.md)
  - [Business App](docs/examples/business-app.md)
  - [Dashboard](docs/examples/dashboard.md)
  - [SaaS](docs/examples/saas.md)

- **[Reference](docs/reference/)**
  - [Types](docs/reference/types.md)
  - [Patterns](docs/reference/patterns.md)
  - [CLI](docs/reference/cli.md)

## 🛠️ Development Status

Seed Spec is in active development (v0.1.0) with a focus on:

1. **Language Evolution**
   - Expanding core patterns
   - Enhancing type system
   - Adding advanced features
   - Improving validation

2. **Generation Pipeline**
   - LLM prompt optimization
   - Code quality improvements
   - Performance tuning
   - Testing automation

3. **Developer Experience**
   - IDE integration
   - Live preview
   - Debug tools
   - Error messages

4. **Enterprise Features**
   - Multi-tenancy
   - Authentication
   - Authorization
   - Audit logging
   - Compliance

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for:
- Development setup
- Coding standards
- Pull request process
- Issue guidelines

## 📄 License

- **Open Source**: [GNU GPL v3.0](LICENSE-GPL.md)
  - Free for personal and open source use
  - Modifications must be shared
  - Commercial use requires license

- **Commercial License**
  - Coming soon
  - Priority support
  - Private modifications
  - Enterprise features

## 📱 Contact & Support

- **Website**: https://noodleseed.com
- **Documentation**: https://docs.noodleseed.com
- **GitHub Issues**: Bug reports & feature requests
- **Discord**: Community chat & support
- **Email**: info@noodleseed.com
- **Twitter**: [@noodleseed](https://twitter.com/noodleseed)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Special thanks to:
- Anthropic for Claude API access
- Our open source contributors
- Early adopters and testers

---

<div align="center">
  Built with ❤️ by <a href="https://noodleseed.com">Noodle Seed</a>
  <br>
  Making software development more natural for humans and machines
</div>

Commit message:

docs: Simplify README introduction and status section

README.md, after:

# Seed Specification Language

[![Project Status: Language Design](https://img.shields.io/badge/Project%20Status-Language%20Design-blue.svg)]()
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Dual%20GPL%2FCommercial-blue.svg)](LICENSE.md)
[![Documentation Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-latest-brightgreen.svg)]()

Seed Spec is an AI-native language that generates production-ready applications from simple specifications. Write what you want, get working software.

## Quick Example

## Example Specification

```yaml
app TodoApp {
  # Core domain model
  entity Task {
    title: string
    done: bool = false
  }

  # UI definition (implies standard patterns)
  screen Tasks {
    list: [title, done]    # Will imply search, sort, pagination
    actions: [create, done] # Will imply proper handlers
  }
}
```

This specification will eventually generate a complete application, but the generation tools are still under development.

## 🌟 Key Features

- **AI-First Design**: Optimized for LLM generation and modification
- **Intent-Focused**: Express what you want, not how to build it
- **Smart Defaults**: Production patterns built-in, override only when needed
- **Full Stack**: One specification drives all application layers
- **Tech Independent**: Target any modern technology stack
- **Maps Integration**: Built-in support for location-based features and mapping

## 🎯 Smart Defaults

Seed Spec minimizes boilerplate through intelligent defaults:

- `string` fields imply validation, indexing, and proper UI handling
- `list` screens imply pagination, sorting, and search
- `actions` imply proper handlers, validation, and error handling
- All entities get automatic CRUD operations
- Security best practices are automatically applied
- `location` fields imply geocoding, map rendering, and distance calculations
- `map` screens imply clustering, search radius, and interactive controls

Override defaults only when needed:
```bash
entity User {
  # Override string defaults
  name: string {
    min: 3,
    max: 50
  }
  
  # Use defaults
  email: email  # Implies validation, uniqueness
}

# Maps integration with smart defaults
entity Store {
  location: location  # Implies geocoding, validation, map rendering
}

screen StoreLocator {
  map: [location]     # Implies clustering, search, radius filters
}
```

## 🏗️ Generated Stack

Seed Spec generates a complete, production-ready stack:

### Frontend
- React + TypeScript
- Responsive UI components
- State management
- Form handling
- API integration
- Maps components

### Backend
- FastAPI + SQLAlchemy
- REST endpoints
- Authentication
- Validation
- Error handling

### Infrastructure
- Database migrations
- Docker configuration
- API documentation
- Testing setup

## 📚 Documentation

- **[Getting Started](docs/getting-started.md)**
  - [Introduction](docs/getting-started/introduction.md)
  - [Installation](docs/getting-started/installation.md)
  - [Quick Start](docs/getting-started/quick-start.md)
  - [First Application](docs/getting-started/first-app.md)

- **[Core Concepts](docs/core-concepts/)**
  - [Type System](docs/core-concepts/type-system.md)
  - [Business Rules](docs/core-concepts/business-rules.md)
  - [UI Patterns](docs/core-concepts/ui-patterns.md)
  - [Architecture](docs/core-concepts/architecture.md)

- **[Examples](docs/examples/)**
  - [Basic CRUD](docs/examples/basic-crud.md)
  - [Business App](docs/examples/business-app.md)
  - [Dashboard](docs/examples/dashboard.md)
  - [SaaS](docs/examples/saas.md)

- **[Reference](docs/reference/)**
  - [Types](docs/reference/types.md)
  - [Patterns](docs/reference/patterns.md)
  - [CLI](docs/reference/cli.md)

## 🛠️ Development Status

Seed Spec is in active development (v0.1.0) with a focus on:

1. **Language Evolution**
   - Expanding core patterns
   - Enhancing type system
   - Adding advanced features
   - Improving validation

2. **Generation Pipeline**
   - LLM prompt optimization
   - Code quality improvements
   - Performance tuning
   - Testing automation

3. **Developer Experience**
   - IDE integration
   - Live preview
   - Debug tools
   - Error messages

4. **Enterprise Features**
   - Multi-tenancy
   - Authentication
   - Authorization
   - Audit logging
   - Compliance

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for:
- Development setup
- Coding standards
- Pull request process
- Issue guidelines

## 📄 License

- **Open Source**: [GNU GPL v3.0](LICENSE-GPL.md)
  - Free for personal and open source use
  - Modifications must be shared
  - Commercial use requires license

- **Commercial License**
  - Coming soon
  - Priority support
  - Private modifications
  - Enterprise features

## 📱 Contact & Support

- **Website**: https://noodleseed.com
- **Documentation**: https://docs.noodleseed.com
- **GitHub Issues**: Bug reports & feature requests
- **Discord**: Community chat & support
- **Email**: info@noodleseed.com
- **Twitter**: [@noodleseed](https://twitter.com/noodleseed)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Special thanks to:
- Anthropic for Claude API access
- Our open source contributors
- Early adopters and testers

---

<div align="center">
  Built with ❤️ by <a href="https://noodleseed.com">Noodle Seed</a>
  <br>
  Making software development more natural for humans and machines
</div>
